Web application architecture defines the interactions between: 

1. Applications
2. middleware systems and 
3. databases 

This is to ensure multiple applications can work together.


Middleware Systems - is the software that connects network-based requests generated by a client to the back-end data the client is requesting. It is a general term for software that serves to "glue together" separate, often complex and already existing programs.


- many businesses still choose independent middleware products that fit their specific needs.

In a client Server mechanism, the requested data can take on many different forms  and may be stored in a variety of ways, such as coming from a file server, fetched from a message queue or persisted in a database. The role of middleware is to enable and ease access to those back-end resources.

Why use midddleware?
1. Manages connectivity to various backend resources. Manage a connection pool.
    - Connection pool - a connection pool is a cache of database connections maintained so that the connections can be reused when future requests to the database are required. Connection pools are used to enhance the performance of executing commands on a database. This is pretty much like leaving the line open when you need to communicate over the phone. Vs Database Index - Frequently accessed information.

2. Implement logic based upon the request made from the client.
3. Middleware plays an important role in concurrent processing, load balancing and even transaction management.
    Concurrency is when two or more tasks can start, run, and complete in overlapping time periods. It doesn't necessarily mean they'll ever both be running at the same instant. For example, multitasking on a single-core machine.
    - We characterise concurrency as a property of a program or system (and parallelism as the run-time behaviour of executing multiple tasks at the same time).
    - In concurrency, we have time slicing, i.e. A short interval of time allotted to each user or program in a multitasking or timesharing system. Time slices are typically in milliseconds

Parallelism is when tasks literally run at the same time, e.g., on a multicore processor.
5. Middleware plays the important role of securing access to back-end resources

Service Oriented Architecture.